what's going on guys it's Bucky and
welcome to your 30th XHTML and CSS
tutorial 30 tutorials that's a milestone
someone should give me an award or
something
but anyways in this tutorial I'm going
to teach you guys how to control styles
by using something called a class now
what a class is is it's similar to a
span in the sense that we can affect the
same element in different ways so let me
break this down for you a little more
clear before we've been using elements
to apply styles to everything on the
webpage that was the same element for
example if we had eight paragraphs and
we applied a style to the paragraph tag
it would affect all eight paragraphs but
whatever sane ahright Bucky I want half
my paragraphs to be read and half of my
paragraphs to be green well we can't
apply a style to the paragraph tag
because it would affect all the
paragraphs so in order for us to get
more control or more customization over
our webpage we need to use something
called a class now let's go ahead and
well we might as well use that paragraph
example so let's go ahead and make two
paragraphs on your screen so the first
one can be like let's go ahead and type
I want this text to be read explanation
point because we really mean it so let's
go ahead and copy this and paste it but
we'll change this paragraph to boy oh
boy I wish I was green and why I
capitalized green I have no idea but I
did it what are you going to do about it
so anyways we have two paragraphs one
where we want the text to be red and one
where we want to text to be green
so you're thinking all right maybe I'll
go ahead and for this paragraph go ahead
and do red and for another paragraph go
ahead and do green but that's not going
to work because it's either going to
make all your paragraphs red or all your
paragraph screen so what is the solution
to this problem well the answer my
friend you guess that is classes so in
order to make a class
here's what you do the first thing you
do in order to tell CSS you're going to
be working with the class is put the
period or a dot whatever the heck you
want to call it and now name your class
anything you want except the cuss word
because that's just rude so I'm going to
name mine red text by the way you
probably want to name it something
descriptive where don't name it like
baked beans and applesauce because that
has nothing to do with the red text name
is something that you notice what it is
so anyways go ahead and put your period
and then write the name of your class
and then inside your curly braces what
you want the rule to be I want color red
so anything that belongs to the class
red text is going to have red text
simple enough so let's go ahead and add
another class just so I can show you
guys that you can name anything you want
I'm going to go ahead and name this baby
green Goblin's that sounds like a name
for a mom what's that show legends of
the Hidden Temple but was green Goblin's
even thing as I said let me see silver
snake purple penguins are some and green
Goblin's might as well anyways like I
was saying so now we have a class red
text and another class green Goblin's
and let's go ahead and make the rule for
green Goblin's
anytime anything belongs to the class
green Goblin's their text is going to be
of course green hence the name green
Goblin's so simple enough so now you're
saying all right let's go ahead and save
this and see what happens if you just
refresh it check it out our paragraphs
are plain old plain old because we
didn't apply the class to those
paragraphs yet so in order to do that
here's what you need to do for this
paragraph since we want this one to
belong to the class red text
we need to add an attribute called class
and we need to set it equal to the name
of that class but don't include the
period
whenever you're right it is your XHTML
attribute just go ahead and drop the
period and write the name of your class
which is red text so go ahead and copy
that and paste it in here
so now let's go ahead and save it
refresh and see what we got
now this paragraph is the only paragraph
that belongs to the class read text so
this is the only paragraph that's going
to turn red so now you can see that we
have some more customization so now if
we want this paragraph to belong to the
class read text and this paragraph to
belong to the class green Goblin's go
ahead and save this in refresh we can
see that this text is now green so
before this tutorial we really had no
way of segregating the two paragraphs
and you can make them any color you want
I chose the red and green don't choose
black and white because that's just
racist and anyways like I was saying we
can now segregate the classes and add
more customization to the same element
whereas before when we add one element
we had one rule where affected all the
elements on the page all the paragraphs
on page all the headers on page they got
the same rule well now we can split them
up and for this example it wasn't really
useful because I mean we could just use
span or anything we could even use div
but this is the most useful way anyways
what am I trying to say here later on
once we start developing websites that
have like hundred of elements per page
this is going to be a huge huge help for
you guys and you guys will see later on
just how helpful this is so this is
probably a tutorial that you want to put
in your favorites because you do not
want to forget about this one so thank
you guys for watching that's all I have
for you guys for this tutorial so I
guess I'll see you in tutorial number 31